# Week 1 — App Containerization

In this week, I was able to create separate containers for frontend and backend of Cruddur app. I was so happy that it worked at my first try. Then while I was going through the discord, I saw some posts mentioning that posts on the Cruddur app must be seen when 3000 port link was clicked. So I started troubleshooting as described in the video. I was able to see the CORS error on Chrome browser developer inspector tool. Both of the ports were active, but they were not communicating with each other. I started checking the docker files. However, since this was my first time using containers I decided to replicate everything as the instruction. After reading and rewatching some of the videos, I realized that bootcamp videos were designed for VScode browser version. I switched to browser version instead of local VScode. And I restarted both containers by using Docker compose up, I was able see the posts on the Cruddur website. 
I pursued with connecting endpoints to frontend and backend. For backend, I started with aws --version command to double check if aws cli was installed. To my surprise it was not there anymore. After switching to VScode browser mode, Gitpod did not have aws cli. I curled the awscli zip file and reinstalled it. Then I configured AWS and resaved environment variables one more time. To double check if everything works fine, I restarted the workspace one more time. Aws was installed and I was able to go through the instructions for adding Music table and song query was successful. Finally, I installed Postgres and Postgres client on the front end. Postgres client will be communicating the search done on the posts or on the frontend to backend. We did not put the backend yet though. We only have DynamoDb local in the backend. It will be replaced with DynamoDB later on.

To gain some more knowledge on Dockers, I completed Adrian Cantrill's Docker course. It was super helpful.
As a challenge next steps will be using local vscode and dockers to play around the backend and frontend containers.


